There are very few crimes which provoke such powerful emotions as child sexual abuse.

The predatory paedophiles who commit these vile and abhorrent offences destroy the lives of their vulnerable victims for their own depraved gratification. It is a stain on civilised society, and one this government is absolutely determined to remove.

For the vast majority of us, the innocence of childhood is joyous and sacrosanct. But sadly we know there are those who get a perverted pleasure from viewing images depicting the sort of sick crimes no one should have to suffer or see.

And in this age of the internet, it has never been easier for those images to be shared. There are millions of pictures of appalling abuse online, many being circulated on networks through which their users seek to protect their anonymity and avoid detection.

The National Crime Agency has been working to disrupt this activity and bring those involved to justice. It was announced yesterday that this six-month operation has safeguarded hundreds of children and resulted in 660 arrests.

The NCA's unique and unprecedented capability to co-ordinate law enforcement efforts has been invaluable, as has the expertise provided by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Command.

There is, of course, much still to do. But this government is taking decisive action to stamp out child sexual exploitation.

That is why we have set up a Home Office-led National Group, through which agencies are working together to better identify those at risk and create a more victim-focused culture within the police, health and children's services.

Alongside the NCA, police forces are actively tackling this issue as evidenced by the increasing number of these cases the police are bringing before the courts and the significant sentences being handed down to perpetrators.

We have also established the UK-US taskforce to counter online child exploitation, through which we are drawing on the brightest and best minds from across industry, law enforcement and academia to stop the internet being used to abuse children.

Google and Microsoft have already made changes to their search engines to prevent images, videos or pathways to child abuse being returned from a blacklist of search terms, making it harder for offenders to find this appalling material.

In addition, we are committed to developing a single, secure database of all illegal images seized by the police and the NCA.

This will help officers work more effectively together to close the net on paedophiles and ensure internet companies can better identify, block and remove illegal images.

Never before will law enforcement agencies have been so well equipped to prevent abuse in the first place, detect it where it is happening, identify and protect victims and bring offenders to justice.

The Child Abuse Image Database will be up and running by the end of the year.

Government action and operations such as this one led by the NCA are sending the message loud and clear - child sexual abuse must stop, and we will do everything we can to end it.

17/07/2014 14:41 BST Updated: 17/07/2014 14:59
An invasive and banned “test” for homosexuality is reportedly still being used in Lebanon.

The examination, which involves the insertion of a metal egg-shaped metal object into the rectum, was carried out on five men accused of being gay, Lebanon’s Daily Star writes.

Being gay is a criminal offence in Lebanon. The men were not suspected of any other offences.

The newspaper writes the doctor who performed the tests was hired by the judicial police’s Moral Protection Bureau.

Nizar Saghieh, the lawyer and editor of the Legal Agenda journal, said he has asked the Lebanese Order of Physicians to sue the doctor for professional misconduct.

The group had earlier forbidden doctors from conducting the examination deeming it to constitute “torture”, Al Bawaba writes.

SEE ALSO: Indonesian Education Official Proposes Virginity Tests For Female High School Students
It said: “Such techniques do not give the desired result and constitute a gross violation of the rights of persons who are subject to it without their consent. ... The practice is humiliating and is torture in violation of the [United Nations] Convention Against Torture.”

It is believed to be the first use of the test since a well-publicised case involving 35 men detained in a raid at an adult cinema in Burj Hammoud in July 2012, The Independent reports.

The raid sparked fierce criticism, with Lebanese Justice Minister Shakib Qortbawi describing the tests as “totally unacceptable” from a “humanitarian point of view”.

Lebanon does not explicitly outlaw homosexuality, but Article 534 of the penal code states that "sexual intercourse contrary to nature" is punishable by up to one year in prison, according to Helem, the first openly gay rights group operating in the region. The organisation says that Article 534 is used by the Lebanese ruling classes to criminalise homosexuality.

In August 2012, Human Rights Watch appealed to the government to repeal article 534.

A spokesman said: “Forensic anal examinations of men suspected of homosexual contact, conducted in detention, constitute degrading and humiliating treatment

“These ‘tests of shame,’ as Lebanese rights organization the Legal Agenda has dubbed them, should stop immediately – the state has no business punishing and degrading its citizens for consensual sexual conduct.”

