
Californian surfers have been taking their canine friends to the waves at the fifth annual Surf City Surf Dog competition. 

Judge Lauren Powers said that the dogs are marked on "how long they ride the wave" and "if they do any tricks,".  

Tim Allman reports.Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.

Llanbedr could be on its way to being the centre for European space travel

A site in Gwynedd has been selected as possible location for a UK spaceport base.

Llanbedr airfield near Harlech has been chosen by the UK government alongside six in Scotland and one in England to launch commercial flights from 2018.

The announcement was made at the Farnborough Air Show by Aviation Minister Robert Goodwill on Tuesday.

Other sites selected included Campbeltown Airport and Newquay Cornwall Airport.

Business Secretary Vince Cable said space was "big business" for the UK and already contributed £11.3bn to the economy each year.

"That's why it's important for us to prepare the UK for new launcher technology and take steps towards meeting our ambition of establishing the first British spaceport by 2018," he said.

Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.

Llanbedr, Gwynedd, joins six possible bases in Scotland and one in England

"Exploring the opportunities that commercial spaceflight presents, and potentially making strategic investments in this area, will support the growth of this thriving industry and underpin the economy of tomorrow, making the UK the place for space."

Mr Goodwill added: "In order to lead the way on commercial spaceflight, we will need to establish a spaceport that enables us to operate regular flights."

The eight shortlisted coastal locations included: 

Economy Minister Edwina Hart said if Llanbedr was chosen it would provide a "transformational opportunity" for Wales as a whole.

"Wales has existing strengths in space technology and the spaceport could serve to further embed and grow this technology base as part of the UK's vision for the sector," she added.A butterfly last seen in the UK more than 60 years ago has been spotted in parts of East Anglia. 

The yellow-legged tortoiseshell, also known as the scarce tortoiseshell, was seen at RSPB Minsmere, Suffolk.

Additional sightings have since been reported in Norfolk, Suffolk and Essex, said Butterfly Conservation.

Experts believe the butterflies, usually found in eastern Europe, have arrived from Holland, where they have recently been seen in large numbers.

Ian Barthorpe, from RSPB Minsmere, hosts of the BBC's Springwatch, said: "The excitement began on Monday when our senior site manager called to say that he thought he had a large tortoiseshell butterfly in his garden. 

"This was potentially a first reserve record of this rare migrant, which used to breed in the UK, so a handful of us rushed to take a closer look. 

"Sure enough, sitting on the bungalow guttering was an unusual tortoiseshell butterfly - slightly larger and paler than the familiar small tortoiseshell, with a slightly different upperwing pattern.

"We were able to confirm the identification as yellow-legged tortoiseshell, also known as scarce tortoiseshell."

The large, dramatically coloured butterfly with distinctive yellow legs, measuring 6cm (2in) across its wingspan, is found from eastern Europe to China and Japan. 

Butterfly Conservation, a charity which helps threatened species of butterflies and moths, said the recent sightings in East Anglia had prompted speculation that the butterfly may be attempting to colonise the UK.

Richard Fox, from the charity, said the yellow-legged tortoiseshell was "an incredibly rare migrant butterfly" which had "only reached Britain once before, in 1953".

"Over the past week, however, a major immigration of this eastern European species has taken place westwards through the Netherlands and across the Channel," he said.

The charity's Big Butterfly Count begins on Saturday.Storms have caused further disruption in parts of the UK after recent high temperatures and lightning strikes.

Heathrow Airport said 17 flights had been cancelled because of the stormy weather. Several others were delayed.

The roof of a house in Chelmsford collapsed after being struck by lightning overnight. No-one was hurt.

There are amber weather warnings for rain in place for most of England and Wales. There are also flood alerts.

Earlier Heathrow had warned of a strong likelihood of thunderstorms, lightning strikes and hail, which can significantly reduce capacity for take-offs and landing.

Passengers have been advised to check whether their flight will be operating before travelling to the airport.

Manchester Airport said an electrical surge caused by thunderstorms had caused some delays.

General duty manager Gary Brown said: "It impacted on some lifts and baggage systems but most systems are now back up and running. We'll wait to see what happens this afternoon when we're expecting thunder."

In other developments:

The Met Office issued the amber weather warning, which means "be prepared", for all but the far northern, eastern and western edges of England and Wales.

There is also a yellow weather warning - meaning "be aware" - for rain for the rest of the UK except north-west Scotland.

Forecasters said a very warm and humid air mass across the UK would become "increasingly unstable", leading to more intense thunderstorms.

"We're expecting heavy thundery showers through the weekend with the potential for torrential downpours, large hail, frequent lightning and locally strong gusts," Met Office chief meteorologist Paul Gundersen said. 

"Not everywhere will see thunderstorms but where they do form we could see significant rainfall in a short space of time, which could cause localised flooding."

The Environment Agency has one flood warning and 53 flood alerts in place across parts of England.  

The agency's John Curtin said there had been 60mm (2in) of rainfall in some places on Saturday, including Westonbirt in Gloucestershire and Bradford-on-Avon, Wiltshire. 

Count the seconds between seeing lightning and hearing thunder - if it's less than 30 seconds, there's a threat”

A Met Office level two heat warning - meaning "alert and readiness" - has been in place for southern and eastern England and the Midlands since Wednesday.

This is triggered when there is a 60% or more chance of heatwave conditions.

Much of the country saw sunshine and hot weather on Friday, with temperatures in Gravesend, Kent, reaching 32.3C (90F), a high for 2014.

The Open golf championship at Hoylake on Merseyside used a two-tee start for the first time in its history because of the risk of thunderstorms.

Play started from both the first and 10th tees to allow for the third round to be completed even if there are delays of up to five hours.

Public Health England (PHE) said the hot weather would continue across much of England this weekend and is urging people to keep up to date with weather forecasts.

PHE director for health protection Dr Paul Cosford said: "Prolonged heat poses a particular risk to the old, young and those with heart and lung conditions, who may feel the effects of hot weather more acutely than others.

"Heat-health warnings are worth repeating and although rain is forecast for the weekend it also will remain very warm in a number of places."

The sweltering temperatures that ended the week came after lightning struck the UK more than 3,000 times in the early hours of Friday.Extra training is to be given to teachers, doctors and social workers to help them to identify and assist girls at risk of female genital mutilation.

It is among a package of measures being unveiled this week by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg at a London summit.

New guidance about the practice will be part of compulsory training in public sector organisations.

Advice about FGM is already issued to many staff but professional bodies have called for a different approach.

The partial or total removal of external female genitalia is illegal in the UK but the practice occurs in parts of Africa, the Middle East and Asia.

Mr Clegg will tell the Girl Summit being hosted by the government and the United Nations Children's Fund (Unicef): "Without the right knowledge, skills and experience, people feel like they don't have the cultural understanding and authority to even talk about this practice honestly, never mind intervene when they're worried someone is vulnerable."

He will say: "Female genital mutilation is one of the oldest and the most extreme ways in which societies have sought to control the lives and bodies of generations of young women and girls.

"We're currently failing thousands of girls... central to tackling it are the doctors, nurses, teachers and legal professionals who need to be equipped to identify and support young women and girls at risk."

Female genital mutilation

Source: World Health Organization

Dr Peter Carter, chief executive of the Royal College of Nursing, said: "Controlling the lives and bodies of young women and girls through FGM has no place in modern Britain.

"The RCN has worked with the government on the development of training and guidance to help equip frontline staff with the skills they need to tackle this most sensitive of issues."

Louise Silverton, director for midwifery at the Royal College of Midwives, welcomed the government plans but said they had to be backed up with "resources and commitment" to ensure staff have access to the training.

Earlier this year, the Association of Teachers and Lecturers said school staff needed more training to help them identity and protect girls at risk.Ofsted is penalising England's teachers for using traditional "chalk and talk" teaching styles, a report says.

Think tank Civitas analysed 260 Ofsted reports and found "trendy" child-led learning and "jazzy lessons" were preferred to teacher-led classes.

The report says inspectors should know not to give credit to one style of teaching over another.

Ofsted said chief inspector Sir Michael Wilshaw had made it clear teachers were free to decide how they should teach.

But the report found teachers were "accustomed to putting on 'jazzy' lessons, replete with group work, role play and active learning in order to fulfil what has become widely acknowledged as the 'Ofsted style'".

Please, please, please think carefully before criticising a lesson ”

The study for the think tank, by Robert Peal, a history teacher and education research fellow, is based on an analysis of two sets of reports.

The first 130 reports, on secondary schools inspected between September 10 and October 13 last year, showed clear evidence of bias, Civitas claims.

While more than half (52%) showed a preference for lessons in which pupils learned independently from teacher instruction, 42% showed a preference for group work, the study says. And 18% criticised teachers for talking too much.

The second set of 130 reports was produced from inspections carried out after new guidance on how to assess teaching quality was issued earlier this year.

Sir Michael wrote to inspectors in January saying: "Please, please, please think carefully before criticising a lesson because it doesn't conform to a particular view of how children should be taught."

Although in the second batch of reports the percentage showing a preference for child-centred learning fell to 38%, the report says the change in the language of the reports was "superficial".

And it claims lead inspectors were given a list of "banned phrases" bemoaning the lack of "trendy teaching methods".

It adds that some reports were edited after publication "to expunge examples of child-centred language".

"Such a shallow approach to combating the preferred Ofsted style of teaching relies on changing the language of the reports, but allowing the fundamental judgement to remain the same," the report says.

It goes on to call for the removal of Ofsted's power to grade the quality of teaching so that schools have the "professional autonomy to focus on what teaching methods  work best".

An Ofsted spokesman said: "The arguments put forward in this report are largely reheated ones.

"What matters to Ofsted is what matters to parents - ensuring that schools are delivering the best possible education for their children.

"As HM chief inspector Sir Michael Wilshaw has repeatedly made clear, Ofsted does not have a preferred teaching style. It is up to the classroom teacher to determine how they should teach."The number of pupils in England's schools is expected to reach its highest level in almost half a century by 2023, figures show.

The government estimates the number of schoolchildren will top eight million in the next nine years.

There will be an estimated 4.6 million pupils in state primary schools, 9% higher than in 2014.

Secondary pupil numbers are expected to start rising from 2016 - from 2.7 million to 3.2 million in 2023.  

The hike in numbers had been fuelled by the birth rate broadly rising since 2002, government statisticians said. 

The data suggests there will also be a further 106,000 pupils in special schools and 14,000 in alternative education provision by 2023.

The Department for Education projections suggest there will be just over eight million youngsters in England's state schools by 2023, up almost a million from 7.1 million this year.

It is thought that the last time pupil numbers reached these levels was in the mid-1970s.

The new data comes amid a continuing concern about a squeeze on school places, particularly for primary-age children.

Last year, a study by the National Audit Office (NAO) warned an estimated extra 256,000 primary and secondary school places would be needed by September 2014. 

Of these, 240,000 are required in primary schools, with more than a third (37%) needed in London alone.

A DfE spokeswoman said local councils were on track to create enough school places for this coming September.

She added: "Ensuring enough school places for the growing population is one of our top priorities. 

"That is why we have more than doubled to £5bn the funding available to councils to create new school places, and are allowing good schools to expand without the restrictions and bureaucracy they faced in the past.

"This has already led to the creation of 260,000 new school places across the country. 

"Under this government nearly 80% of new primary places created are in good or outstanding schools."

She added that 212,000 new primary places had been created between May 2010 and May 2013.

The Association of Teachers and Lecturers' director of economic strategy and negotiations, Martin Freedman, said the new Education Secretary, Nicky Morgan, would be judged on whether parents could get their children into a school of their choice and whether there were enough high quality teachers in those schools. 

"The latest estimate that there will be almost a million more pupils by 2023 will make both of these areas much more difficult to manage," he said.Graduation ceremony photographers are offering an extra service to digitally alter pictures to give students a slimmer look and to have whiter teeth.

Success Photography is offering graduates "digital slimming" and "smile enhancement" for an additional charge.

A statement from the photographers said it was about "reducing the appearance of the gown" and not the individual.

But students on Twitter criticised it as a "sad snapshot of society and why many people have such low self-esteem".

With tens of thousands of families attending graduation ceremonies, the photography package from Success Photography offers the option of a digitally enhanced version of the special occasion.

For an extra £9.95 pictures can be adjusted with "digital slimming".

"The traditional graduation gown is a mark of respect and achievement. However it can be bulky and unflattering. With advanced digital technology we can reduce the gowns appearance making it more fitting to your shape," says the photographers' website.

For a further £7.95, there is a "digital complexion and smile enhancement", which "removes all imperfections such as blemishes, redness and shine, leaving your skin looking smooth and healthy. We also enhance the whiteness of your smile".

Without these extras, the prestige framed graduation photograph costs about £125.

The firm takes photographs at a number of university graduation events across the UK.

But there has been a negative reaction from some students on Twitter - who linked the slimming option to the pressure put on young people to worry about their physical appearance.

There were claims that this was making "fake memories".

Others seemed taken aback by the offer of such changes to photographs

"Just booked an official graduation photo - very shocked by the digital slimming option! What is the world coming to..."UK universities spent nearly £140m extra on attracting poorer students in 2012-13, when annual tuition fees trebled to £9,000, a report says.

The Office of Fair Access report says the extra comprised £61.5m on outreach work, £30m on financial support and £48m on a new scholarship programme.

But it said there had been little progress in attracting poorer students to the most selective universities.

The government says universities have taken active steps to boost diversity.

The Offa report considers the progress universities made in ensuring students from a wide variety of backgrounds are admitted to the 148 university and colleges allowed to charge £9,000 fees. 

Higher fees were allowed on condition they invested a proportion of the extra cash on activities and bursaries to attract disadvantaged students.

Overall universities spent £1.2bn from their tuition fee income and government grants on such activities.

There had been serious concerns that trebling university tuition fees would deter students from poorer backgrounds.

Prof Les Ebdon, director of Fair Access, said: "The introduction of higher fees in 2012-13 made it more important than ever that universities and colleges work to remove the barriers to participation that may prevent talented students from entering and succeeding in higher education. 

"When I talk about barriers to participation, I not only mean financial barriers, or perceived financial barriers.

"I am also talking about people thinking - erroneously - that 'university is not for me' or 'I won't be welcome there' because social, cultural or educational disadvantages have held back their expectations."

There must be further, faster change at highly selective universities”

Official admissions figures have already suggested disadvantaged students were not put off university courses in this crucial year.

However, there was less progress on boosting the number of poor students attending the most selective universities.

The rate of increase had been "flat in recent years despite universities' considerable efforts and investment", Prof Ebdon said, adding this was starting to change.

He added: "There must be further, faster change at highly selective universities."

The report says the top 20% of young people from the most advantaged backgrounds were more than six times more likely to attend one of these institutions.

Wendy Piatt, director general of the Russell Group of leading universities, said it was good that Offa had confirmed higher fees had not deterred youngsters from poor backgrounds from university.

"But," she said, "we remain concerned that the government's access policies risk focusing too much on regulation and not enough on resolving the real problems.

"Investment by universities alone cannot solve the deeper causes of the under-representation of students from disadvantaged backgrounds - under-achievement at school and poor advice on the best choices of A-level subjects and university degree course."

National Union of Students president Toni Pearce said: "Universities should be casting the net as wide as possible identifying those with the potential to benefit from a diverse range of higher education options."

A spokesman for the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills said: "Government is committed to supporting wider participation, which is why we launched the National Strategy for Access and Student Success to help improve student levels, particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds."Young adults leaving the care system in England should be provided with regulated accommodation and not be placed in bed and breakfasts, say MPs.

The Commons Education Select Committee says B&B accommodation is "threatening and frightening" and should only be used in emergency situations.

MPs say these youngsters should not have to leave care until they are 21.

The Department for Education said it would take "tough action" where it found B&Bs were being used.

The MPs' report - Into independence, not out of care: 16 plus care options -  suggests that the quality of preparation for a young person's transition from care to greater independence is "too often inadequate".

These adolescents must be "fully and effectively informed of their rights and entitlements", says the report,  and given a genuine choice of accommodation available.

The MPs raise particular concern about stories of young care leavers being housed in bed and breakfast accommodation.

The DfE does not collect data on the number of looked-after 16- or 17-year-olds placed in B&Bs, but 22% of them are classified as living in "other arrangements".

The committee said informal discussions members had had with young people provided further accounts of the continued use of B&Bs for care leavers, sometimes for extended periods of time. 

"One young person informed us that she had been living in a B&B for two years," the report says.

The report continues: "Statutory guidance is clear that B&Bs are unsuitable for young people in care and should only be used in very particular, emergency situations.

"Nonetheless, we are deeply troubled by the continued use of B&Bs. Far from being merely unsuitable, B&Bs can present an environment which feels unsafe and threatening to a young person."

Last December, the government announced that children in care in England would be able to stay with their foster families until their 21st birthday, rather than having to leave at age 18.

The committee says a similar rule should be in place for young people in care in residential homes.

"Many young people are settled and thriving in residential children's homes," says the report.

"Young people living in residential children's homes should have the right to remain there beyond the age of 18, just as young people in foster care now have the right to stay put until the age of 21. 

"We recommend that the DfE extends 'staying put' to residential children's homes."

The report also says leaving-care services should be extended to the age of 25, without exception.

Chairman of the committee, Graham Stuart, said the MPs had launched the inquiry because of concerns about the level of care and quality of support for older adolescents.  

Mr Stuart said looked-after youngsters moving towards adulthood deserved a "well-supported transition to independence rather than an abrupt push out of care".

"For too many looked after young people, their ambition to move to semi-independent or independent living at the age of 16 or 17 results in them being placed in accommodation that is neither safe nor suitable," he said.

"The lack of regulation and inspection for the range of accommodation used is shocking.  

"The DfE asserts that B&Bs are not considered to be suitable. 

"Their continued use shows that the current guidance is clearly inadequate. 

"The message is plain: B&Bs are not suitable and should only be used in extreme, emergency situations and even then, never for more than a few days."

David Simmonds, chairman of the Local Government Association's Children and Young People Board, said: "Looking after vulnerable children is one of the most important things that councils do and is a responsibility they take incredibly seriously. Local authorities work extremely hard to make sure that all children in care are found suitable accommodation and are well looked after, and the vast majority of councils will only ever use bed and breakfast accommodation as a temporary solution to exceptional circumstances. 

"The child's best interests must always be our central concern, and there will be times where emergency placements are required at extremely short notice. We must be careful to ensure that any ban on the use of bed and breakfasts does not leave vulnerable young people effectively homeless due to a lack of temporary accommodation. 

"These cases are often extremely complex and take time to resolve in a way that offers the best long-term solution to the young person."

A spokesman for the DfE said: "We have also been clear that young people must not be placed in bed and breakfasts unless absolutely essential, and we will take tough action where we find this is happening.

"It is our priority to improve the quality of residential care and we have set out our plans to do this. We are working closely with the National Children's Bureau and the Who Cares? Trust to look at the practical issues of supporting young people to remain in homes until they are 21."Pupils' chances of getting a good education in England still depend on where they live, inspectors have said.

An Ofsted report indicates "considerable variation" across local authorities in how many pupils achieve the expected level at ages 11 and 16.

The schools watchdog vowed to "focus its attention" on those areas failing to raise pupil attainment.

The study examined the use of the pupil premium - extra money given to schools to help disadvantaged pupils.

The funds are available for pupils who are, or have been over the previous six years, eligible for free school meals or in care.

In the academic year 2014-15, the government is allocating £2.5bn to the scheme. Primary schools will get an extra £1,300 per eligible pupil and secondary schools will get £935. 

The Ofsted report said this meant an average-sized secondary school in England with an average number of eligible pupils would receive about £200,000 in extra funding - the equivalent of five full-time teachers.

The report, based on official data and inspection reports, concludes there is evidence the pupil premium is boosting the education prospects of many children.

It says that while it is still too early to tell if there has been a significant narrowing of the gap between rich and poor youngsters nationally, inspectors believe that school leaders are spending the extra money more effectively than ever.

The cash is most frequently being used to pay for extra teachers and teaching assistants who give individual help or small group tuition, usually in English and maths.

Ofsted boss Sir Michael Wilshaw said the improving situation could be down to the watchdog looking at how the premium was being spent as part of inspections.

Head teachers were also aware that they could not get a desirable Ofsted judgment if they did not show how they were improving the results of disadvantaged pupils, Sir Michael said.

But the report also warned  that while some areas had seen major improvements in disadvantaged pupils' performance, others were improving too slowly.

It cannot be right that the likelihood of a child receiving a good education should depend on their postcode ”

"Although inspectors have seen large improvements in the attitude of school leaders and governors, there is considerable variation across local authorities in the proportion of pupils achieving expected levels at Key Stages 2 (end of primary) and 4 (GCSE level) and the rate of improvement from year to year," the report said.

Pupils who are eligible for free school meals in Barnsley, Portsmouth, South Gloucestershire, North Lincolnshire and Northumberland were least likely to get five good GCSEs, including English and maths, inspectors said.

Last year, about one in four premium-eligible pupils in these areas reached this benchmark, Ofsted said.

At the other end of the scale, Kensington and Chelsea, Westminster, Southwark, Tower Hamlets and Lambeth had the highest proportions of premium-eligible youngsters - about three-fifths - reaching this standard. 

The report goes on to note that Barnsley had had the third lowest proportion of eligible children getting five or more C grades in 2012, and attainment had declined further to make it the lowest attaining authority in 2013.

It concluded:  "It cannot be right that the likelihood of a child receiving a good education should depend on their postcode or economic circumstance.

"Government should focus its attention on those areas of the country that are letting poor children down. Ofsted will also focus its attention on these areas in subsequent reports to see if improvements have been made."

Sir Michael Wilshaw, said: "One of the greatest challenges this country faces is closing the unacceptable gap that remains between poorer children and their better-off classmates when it comes to educational outcomes. 

"As chief inspector, I am passionate about improving the prospects of our least advantaged children, so I am encouraged by the clear signs in today's report that more effective spending and monitoring of the pupil premium is starting to make a positive difference in many schools. 

"Ofsted, for its part, will continue to focus relentlessly on how schools are using this money to ensure these pupils don't get left behind."

Schools Minister David Laws said the  pupil premium was transforming the life chances of pupils across the country.

"It [the report] shows head teachers, teachers and governors are rallying behind the policy to close the achievement gap between disadvantaged pupils and their peers. And where performance is an issue we are taking swift action to ensure all pupils are given the education they deserve."

Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg said: "The pupil premium has been one of the most significant changes in our education system for a long time and is already closing the attainment gap by helping up to two million disadvantaged children get the support, education and skills they need to get on in life - whether it's through literacy classes, catch-up lessons or one-to-one tuition."Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg says English primary schools may have "some difficulties" in meeting his pledge to provide free meals for under-sevens.  

However, he insisted the pledge had been both "well-funded" and "well-researched".

Meanwhile, 34 councils in England told the BBC that they were having to use money from their own budgets to provide the meals from September. 

Head teachers have also complained that the scheme will hurt their budgets.

Mr Clegg told the BBC: "Of course there'll be some schools who'll have some difficulties and may not meet the drop-down date in early September to have free school meals delivered exactly as they want on the first day, but it will be a huge change and the vast majority of schools have already told us in government that they're ready."

1.9m

infant pupils in England will be entitled to free school meals from September

£150m

being spent by government to support the plan

34% LEAs replying to R5L survey say they don't have enough cash 

£3m shortfall reported by Essex
                

190 schools in Leeds being asked to help fund changes

BBC Radio 5 live's Drive programme asked every council in England how much they received from central government and how much the schools felt they needed to bring their facilities up to scratch.

Ninety-nine of the 152 councils replied, and 34 of these said they did not get enough money to meet their school's needs, despite being told the scheme would be "fully funded" by the government.

Many councils say they are raiding other budgets such as capital and maintenance funds to make up the shortfall, which in some cases runs to millions of pounds. Essex County Council says it is facing a £3m shortfall.  

Some councils are passing the costs on to the schools themselves.  

In Leeds, schools have been told they must find half of the money needed. 

Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.

Head teacher Stephen Watkins tells 5 live: "You're not spending money in other areas"

Stephen Watkins, head teacher of Mill Field Primary School in Leeds, said he did not want "to spend too much time sorting out how to be a caterer rather than focusing on curriculum". 

He added: "I would have spent this money on tablets and I can't buy them now. It's annoying when you set your budget in April to then be told you need to find this money in May."

Other schools have raised concerns about logistical challenges.

Lynn Knapp, head teacher of Windmill Primary School in Oxfordshire, told the BBC that it would be "tough" to provide free, hot meals for all pupils aged four to seven.

"We know that the kitchen is going to have to have structural changes in order for us to actually cook that amount of dinners. Currently we have the capacity to cook 200 dinners and we're going to have to double that."

The chairman of the Local Government Association's Children and Young People Board, David Simmonds, said: "Councils have been pushing their local schools to ensure readiness but have had to rely on schools coming forward with plans for how they will deliver their new duty. 

"While local government supports the free school meals policy, this is a central government initiative and should therefore be fully funded by central government.""Morning people", who are more alert early in the day, are more likely to cheat and behave unethically in the night hours, researchers say.

Psychologists found that early-rising "larks" and late-night "owls" had different levels of honesty depending on the time of day.

The study found a link between ethical choices and such internal clocks.

Sunita Sah, research fellow at Harvard University in the US, said this had "implications for workplaces".

The research examined the behaviour of almost 200 people - with the subjects taking part in problem-solving tests and games without realising that it was their honesty that was being measured.

The results cast doubt on the stereotype that evening people are somehow dissolute”

The study, The Morality of Larks and Owls, examined the relationship between ethical decision making and people's "chronotype" - which is when individuals are most likely to want to be asleep or when they have more energy.

It found a significant link between people being more likely to be honest when it fitted in with their chronotype, This meant that the early-rising "larks" were more ethical in the morning - and the "owls" were more likely to be honest at night.

The study used financial rewards of up to $10 for completing tests against time - and contests with the prospect of bigger prizes. But researchers were really monitoring how people self-reported their results.

The level of dishonesty was found to be heightened when people were outside of their preferred time of day. The study reports: "In the morning, evening people are more unethical than morning people."

It found that "ethical behaviour arises when people 'match' their situations".

The research was carried out by academics at US universities - Johns Hopkins University and the University of Washington, and Prof Sah is an assistant professor of business ethics at Georgetown University as well as a research fellow at Harvard.

Prof Sah says that the findings have major implications for workplaces relying on ethical decisions and honesty - particularly where there are shift patterns.

It raises questions about working hours and the structure of the working day, she says, if people's decision making is affected by their chronotype.

Making an ethical choice - such as sticking to the rules of a test - seems to change with people's internal body clocks and different times of the day, suggests this study.

But the findings also challenge suggestions that night owls are more likely to be badly behaved.

"They cast doubt on the stereotype that evening people are somehow dissolute," the report concludes.Obesity in children in Northern Ireland is on the rise and needs to be tackled, according to a Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health survey.

It found an increase in the numbers of children they have treated who are overweight.  

The findings also flagged up a rise in the numbers of young people with mental health problems.  

The organisation is opening an office in Belfast on Wednesday to try to help improve children's health. 

They are calling for key public health messages to be sent out, particularly to low income families along with faster, better treatment.  

Dr Hilary Cass, president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, said if the problem is not tackled now, it will rapidly get worse.

Speaking on BBC's Good Morning Ulster programme on Wednesday, she said: "We should be worried because if we do not fix this problem now, we will see unhealthy kids turning into unhealthy adults with diabetes, heart disease and kidney problems.

"Not only should we be tackling it because morally it is the right thing to do, but it makes economic sense to tackle it now."

Dr Cass said nearly 20% of children in Northern Ireland are now overweight or obese before they start primary school, and urged the public to make healthier choices and recognise the importance of exercise.

"It is never simple, it is because more of us are leading sedentary lifestyles and not understanding the right food choices," she said.

"Young parents, in particular, we need to support and explain to them how to make healthy choices, take more exercise and be more active.  It is really important how we educate our young people, it is our responsibility to do that."

Dr Cass also said there was a link between levels of income and obesity within families.

"Not only if you come from a more deprived background, do you have higher levels of obesity, but in more affluent groups things are levelling off," she said.

"In the more deprived groups, it is getting worse - so you start worse, and it is getting even worse over time.  We have got to support people in that income bracket.

"We cannot forget any one group, but we should try and support those from low-income backgrounds, in terms of making clear that you can get healthier foods within the budget you have available."Staff at a school in Hove are staging a one-day strike over concerns at plans to turn it into an academy.

The National Union of Teachers (NUT) protest has closed both sites at Hove Park School.

Campaigners said the action was supported by parents, carers and students.

Head teacher Derek Trimmer said  a minority of staff voted to strike but a risk assessment had led to a decision the school would have to close.

Seventy-six of the school's 220 staff are in the NUT, Mr Trimmer said. Out of 46 people who voted, 36 supported strike action, he added.

He also said governors had promised staff there would be no threat to pay and conditions before adding: "It is hard to see why strike action is necessary."

NUT regional secretary Paddy Marshall said 80% of those who voted backed strike action, and members objected to the change of employer - Hove Park would be run by a multi-academy trust, under the plans.

He said protection to terms and conditions would not apply to new staff and those seeking promotion.

Strike action was "a last resort" but members wanted to make their views known, he said.

Consultation on the academy move has closed, with a decision to be made in September.

The school said becoming an academy would allow it to allocate more resources to students' education, determine its entire budget, and apply directly to the government for funds.

But Sharon Duggal, from Hands Off Hove Park School, said: "Parents and carers share the teachers' concerns that the case for the academy has not been made in terms of benefits to pupils."

Brighton council said the decision on becoming an academy was a matter for school governors, but it had balloted Hove Park parents.

Results showed 156 parents voted yes to becoming an academy, and 387 voted no - 1,528 ballot papers were sent out, with 544 responses received.Geologists have discovered the secret that gives dramatic natural sandstone monuments their shape: gravity.

By studying cubes of sand in the lab, they showed that areas squeezed by vertical stress are protected from erosion, while others wash away.

The process had proved difficult to study, because natural slabs of sandstone erode over millions of years.

The key to the experiments, published in Nature Geoscience, was an unusual "locked sand" dug from a Czech quarry.

The stress field is the master sculptor - it tells the weather where to pick”

The study's first author, Dr Jiri Bruthans from Charles University in Prague, said the new study revealed the "Michelangelo" behind some of the world's most famous rocky landmarks.

"The stress field is the master sculptor - it tells the weather where to pick," he told BBC News. 

Erosion by wind and water, it seems, is merely the sharp instrument. The remarkable shapes are controlled by internal stresses and strains within the rock, applied by the pull of gravity.

As well as showing they could predict the shapes with mathematical models of that stress field, Dr Bruthans and his team sandwiched small cubes of sand under various weights and submerged them in water.

The sides of the cube started to fall away within minutes, leaving fewer and fewer grains of sand to bear the weight. As that process continued, eventually the pressure on the remaining column caused the grains to lock together and resist further erosion.

When they added faults or other distortions to the cube, and shifted the direction of the pressure applied, the scientists were able to reproduce a gallery of the sort of shapes seen in natural sandstone landforms.

They've really demonstrated convincingly that as you erode this material, it begins to concentrate stress”

They were only able to watch all this happen because of the strange, sticky quality of the sand they used. 

From the Strelec Quarry, in the north of the Czech Republic, the team collected samples of a sand with particular interlocking properties: "Strelec locked sand". It is so soft that for many years it was mined in the quarry using hoses - but when it dried out, explosives had to be used. 

For his experiments, Dr Bruthans used 10cm blocks of this locked sand that were dried out an oven.

"It was very clever to find this rock out of a quarry that would behave in an accelerated way, compared to those famous sandstone arches," commented Dr Simon Mudd, a lecturer in landscape dynamics at the University of Edinburgh, UK.

"They've really demonstrated convincingly that as you erode this material, it begins to concentrate stress," he told the BBC.

To show that the principle also applies to regular sandstone, Dr Bruthans and his team also took small cubes of normal, "cemented" sandstone from the same quarry and attacked them with cycles of heat, cold and salt, to simulate natural erosion.

In all cases, Dr Bruthans showed that it was pressure that determined the shapes left behind.

"You can control it completely," he said. "You select the pillar direction, by choosing the points where you apply the compression."

One experiment even showed that a block of the Strelec sand, placed straddling a small gap and left outside in the rain for 15 months, would naturally form an arch. 

All of these processes can be predicted by modelling the stress field, Dr Bruthans emphasised. "It's just the stress which controls the shape - nothing else."

The results were enough to convince Dr Mudd: "It's a very compelling combination of experimental and numerical work," he said.

In an accompanying comment article for Nature Geoscience, Prof Chris Paola from the University of Minnesota, US, described the discovery as "a lovely and elegant formative mechanism for a lovely and elegant kind of landform".

"These natural sculptures have delighted countless visitors, some of whom must have paused to wonder where they come from," Prof Paola wrote. "Here is an answer."The European Commission has responded to criticism of its billion-euro Human Brain Project, declaring confidence that objections will be satisfied.

The statement also defends the ability of the project to set its own scope, which critics have said is too narrow.

But it says new recommendations for management of the HBP and the balance between its core and partner projects (both contentious issues) are expected in September.

Critics cautiously welcomed the reply.

Under the heading "no single roadmap for understanding the human brain", Robert Madelin (the relevant director-general within the EC) responded directly to last week's open letter.

"As a public funding agency, we take all such signals seriously," he wrote. "We welcome debate."

Responding to the concern that the HBP concentrates too exclusively on simulations of the brain, Mr Madelin stated, "The exact scope of the project is a matter for the project itself."

He also addressed the sidelining of cognitive neuroscientists, who study the brain from a more "top-down", function-based perspective than the "bottom-up" cell and network modelling that is at the heart of the HBP.

This type of work was recently "repositioned" outside the core of the project.

As part of a review of the project's Framework Partnership Agreement, a necessary hurdle to unlock funding from within Horizon 2020, the EC statement suggested there will be recommendations on "the balance between the core project and a number of partnering projects" - presumably including cognitive work.

That review, due in September, should also address "the governance of the overall initiative" and is being conducted "by high-level and independent experts", wrote Mr Madelin.

The project's critics had demanded a review by top neuroscientists who are not associated with the HBP.

Dr Zachary Mainen, one of the principal organisers of the protest letter, told the BBC he was "cautiously optimistic", while noting a lack of specific commitments in the EC's response.

"We appreciate the commission's recognition of our concerns and of the importance of neuroscience and a diversity of approaches," he said. "We look forward to working with the commission in the coming weeks and months."Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.

Tim Peake: "It is a celebration of science"

British astronaut Tim Peake has named his mission into space after a book by Sir Isaac Newton.

The name he chose - Principia - refers to Newton's book of mathematical principles Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica.

The book set out the laws of motion and gravity more than 300 years ago.

Over 4,000 people replied to the call to suggest a name for the mission earlier this year, and Principia was suggested 20 times.

In a separate development, five groups of children have come up with ideas for meals the Briton can take into space with him.

Not only does it have the link with space and gravity but also it's a celebration of science and that is what the space station is about now”

Major Peake is due to go to the ISS towards the end of 2015 and spend six months there carrying out scientific experiments.

He told BBC News why he chose the Principia name.

"It is in honour of Britain's greatest scientist, Sir Isaac Newton," he said.

"Not only does it have the link with space and gravity but also it's a celebration of science and that is what the space station is about now and that is what my mission is going to be focussing on and bringing it back to planet Earth."

Major Peake also told BBC News that he is keen for people to be as involved as possible in his Principia Mission.

"It will be fun and exciting to follow," he said.

"There will be scientific principles coming out of it. I'll be doing real science aboard the space station as well as fun science at the weekends."

Viewers of the BBC children's programme, Blue Peter, will be invited to design Tim Peake's mission patch for the Principia Mission in a competition to be launched in September.

Ewan Vinnicombe, editor of Blue Peter, said: "We're thrilled that Blue Peter is giving children this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to see their design for Tim Peake's Space Badge, go into space on such an exciting mission. 

"We'll be looking for creative, imaginative and original designs inspired by Tim Peake, his mission and space exploration and look forward to receiving some out of this world entries."

It is customary for the public to help choose mission names every time a European astronaut goes into orbit.

Names that reflect an astronaut's nationality are encouraged, but they should also have a wider European flavour, and be easy to pronounce.

Previous mission names have included Marco Polo for the Italian Astronaut Roberto Vittori, and Delta for Dutch astronaut Andre Kuipers' flight to the ISS. Delta was an acronym for "Dutch Expedition for Life Science, Technology and Atmospheric Research".

Follow Pallab on TwitterScientists have developed a highly advanced bird song decoder, which can automatically identify the call of a vast variety of birds.

The software brings the "cracking of the dawn chorus" one step closer.

It used recordings of individual birds and of dawn choruses to identify the characteristics of each tweet.  

Dr Dan Stowell is lead author of the report, which was published in the Journal PeerJ. 

He told the BBC: "Given a set of recordings, each of them with a list of the bird species present, I was able to 'train' a computer system by showing it these labelled examples."

This technique is called "feature-learning", which is an automatic analysis technique, used alongside a classification algorithm.

According to the report, this automatically learned data can "often outperform" manually compiled information.

The songs of hundreds of birds were analysed, including samples from the British Library Sound Archive. The best results were gathered from the biggest dataset ever gathered: Brazilian recordings of more than 500 single birds. 

Dr Stowell said: "Birdsong is extremely complex. The simplest sounds are often the most difficult, because they can sound so alike."

He believes that existing software doesn't work well because it's not specific enough. This piece of work has found that bird sound classification is possible at a very large scale.

"If you go out in to a forest and want to know what you hear, there are hundreds of possible results. Now we are closer to having an app that can really let us do that." 

Dr Stowell is now working on technology that can do even more than just identify the bird. He wants to try to decode the actual relationships between them. By analysing the call of a species of goldfinch, he is close to working out which birds are in pairs - just by their sound.

The tool has implications for the understanding of different areas, including ecology and conservation. It may also help our understanding of the human voice. "The sound of humans and birds are two completely separately evolved systems,' said Dr Stowell. 

"But they do very similar things. For example chicks learn how to tweet from older birds, and in parallel children learn to speak by learning from adults." 

An interesting consequence of this is that birds have regional accents. "Skylarks can recognise local birds and ones that have come from further away by the vocals they have learned."

However, Dr Stowell acknowledges that there is still some way to go. The researchers weren't able to make much significant progress on identifying all the birds singing in the dawn chorus. 

"This is very complicated. It's a very difficult but interesting problem. And this brings us one step closer." Grow-your-own pacemakers are a step closer to reality, after pioneering experiments in pigs.

Scientists turned heart cells into pacemaker cells by injecting a gene.

The "biological pacemaker" was able to "effectively cure a disease", said scientists from the Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute in Los Angeles.

The British Heart Foundation said applications of the research, published in Science Translational Medicine, were "a long way off".

The researchers injected a gene into pigs with a heart condition that causes a very slow heart rate.

It is possible that one day, we might be able to save lives by replacing hardware with an injection of genes”

The gene therapy converted some of the billions of ordinary heart muscle cells into much rarer specialised cells that kept the heart beating in rhythm.

The patch of cells the size of a peppercorn had acted as a pacemaker for two weeks, taking over the function of a conventional pacemaker, said the US team.

"We have been able, for the first time, to create a biological pacemaker using minimally invasive methods and to show that the biological pacemaker supports the demands of daily life," said Dr Eduardo Marban, who led the research team. 

"We also are the first to reprogram a heart cell in a living animal in order to effectively cure a disease." 

Heart rhythm

Conventional pacemakers are electronic devices that are implanted into the chest to control an abnormal heartbeat.

The pacemaker sends regular electrical pulses to keep the heart beating regularly.

Scientists are working on creating biological pacemakers that might one day be used in their place, either as a temporary or more permanent measure.

"Babies still in the womb cannot have a pacemaker, but we hope to work with foetal medicine specialists to create a life-saving catheter-based treatment for infants diagnosed with congenital heart block," said co-researcher Dr Eugenio Cingolani.

"It is possible that one day, we might be able to save lives by replacing hardware with an injection of genes."

But the British Heart Foundation said this was a long way off.

Pacemakers had been around since the early 1960s, and while technology was constantly improving, researchers were looking ahead to a day when perhaps an implantable device might not be needed for some patients, said senior cardiac nurse Amy Thompson. 

"However, it is a long way off yet and the benefits of a pacemaker are usually outweighed by the risks," she added. 

"This study is an interesting contribution to this area of research, however it was quite small and only lasted two weeks. 

"Pacemakers continue to be an important treatment for many abnormal heart rhythms, helping to keep hearts beating and save lives." Scientists at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) have come up with a robotic extension to the human hand they said could help with everyday tasks.

Researches said the extension - essentially, two extra "fingers" - could be used to grasp, leaving the hand free to do other tasks.

Worn around the wrist, it mimics the movement of the wearer's hand.

The next step, they said, will be a less bulky version.

The extra fingers developed by the team at MIT work using sensors attached to the human hand to measure the position of the wearer's fingers. An algorithm controls the output from the sensors to the robotic fingers, moving them in sync.

"Every day, we use various tools, say a knife and fork and we drive a car and, if we use these tools for a long time, you see that those tools are just an extension of your body," said Harry Asada, the Ford Prof of Engineering in MIT's Department of Mechanical Engineering.

"That is exactly what we would like to do with robotics, you have extra fingers and extra arms. If you have control and can communicate with them very well, you feel that they are just an extension of your body," he added in a video posted on YouTube.

The robotic fingers are at either side of the the hand - one outside the thumb, and the other outside the little finger.

"This is a completely intuitive and natural way to move your robotic fingers. You do not need to command the robot, but simply move your fingers naturally. Then the robotic fingers react and assist your fingers," said Prof Asada.

The developers said their work up until this point was focused on perfecting the posture and movement of the robotic fingers. 

"But it's not the whole story," said graduate student Faye Wu, who presented a paper on the fingers this week at the Robotics: Science and Systems conference in California.

She said: "There are other things that make a good, stable grasp. With an object that looks small but is heavy, or is slippery, the posture would be the same, but the force would be different, so how would it adapt to that? That's the next thing we'll look at."

One independent expert said that the device was most likely to appeal to specialists, rather than the mass market.

"Clearly, the military is interested in robotics, they are interested in building machines, like exoskeletons that allow people to run very fast for a long time," said David Bourne, principal systems scientist at the robotics institute at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.

"But those things are inherently very expensive," he said, adding that devices need to have a "killer application" to work in the mass market.

However, Mr Bourne said that, after a lull, he has seen a resurgence in interest in robotics in recent years because of advances in the technology. 

"You have better control and less awkward communication with the devices now," he said.

Prof Asada acknowledged the project had only yielded a prototype at this stage, but said he was optimistic about the possibilities it offers.

"We can shrink it down to one-third its size, and make it foldable," he said.

"We could make this into a watch or a bracelet where the fingers pop up, and when the job is done, they come back into the watch. 

"Wearable robots are a way to bring the robot closer to our daily life."A new four-winged dinosaur has been discovered, with exceptionally long feathers on its tail and "hindwings".

Changyuraptor yangi was a gliding predator which lived in the Cretaceous period in what is now Liaoning, China.

Its remarkable tail feathers - measuring up to 30cm - are the longest in any non-avian dinosaur.

The tail would have acted as a pitch control structure reducing descent speed... which could be critical to a safe landing or precise attack on prey”

This unusual plumage helped the creature to slow down during flight and land safely, say scientists writing in Nature Communications. 

C. yangi is a new species of microraptorine, a group related to early avians.

These ancient creatures offer clues to the origin of flight - and the transition from feathered dinosaurs to birds.

Palaeontologists once thought that four-winged gliders were a stepping stone in the path to two-winged flight.

But recent fossil discoveries suggest that microraptorines were an evolutionary side-branch.

Flight probably evolved many times in different feathered species - not only the lineage which ultimately became birds.

The skeleton of C. yangi was discovered by a team from Bohai University, China, and the Natural History Museum of Los Angeles County, US.

Measuring 132cm from its snout to the tip of its tail feathers, it is the largest four-winged dinosaur ever discovered - longer than an eagle or an albatross today.

The feathers on its hind limbs are unusually prominent - suggesting they were actually "hindwings" and played a role in flight, the researchers write.

By calculating the lift and drag generated by the feathers, they concluded that C. yangi used its long tail to compensate for its large size and maintain control while airborne.

"The low-aspect-ratio tail of the new fossil would have acted as a pitch control structure reducing descent speed... which could be critical to a safe landing or precise attack on prey," the authors write.

"Such pitch stabilisation could be particularly important for larger microraptorines (since they would tend to fly and/or descend more rapidly than small individuals), and this effect explains why the tail fan is exceptionally long."A new smart helmet that allows fighter pilots to see in the dark via an integrated night vision camera has been unveiled at the Farnborough Airshow.

The Striker II, built by BAE Systems, features a visor that also acts as a high-definition display, which can project useful information to the user.

This includes data about targets and the co-ordinates of objects below.

The helmet also boasts head-tracking technology. It has been described as a "significant advance" by one expert.

Previous generations of fighter pilot helmets have been fitted with exterior night vision goggles, which added to the overall weight on a pilot's head.

Analogue goggles can weigh as much as 0.5kg (1.1lb). 

That does not sound like a lot, but they become nine times heavier when the jet accelerates at 9G.

Goggles also change a helmet's centre of gravity. This causes neck strain and restricts the pilot's movement when flying in the dark. 

The Striker II, which builds on its predecessor's "x-ray" display, moves night vision inside the helmet by using an image from a digital camera that is relayed through the helmet mounted display on the visor. 

Night vision is vital to pilots when they are flying in close formation, refuelling in mid-air, assisting troops on the ground, and even launching a ground attack. 

Chris Colston, director of business development at BAE, says the first role of a helmet is still to keep pilots safe, but adds Striker II also provides "all of the capability all of the time".

"Fundamentally, it must still provide protection," he says.

"The pilot must still be able to eject from the aircraft at speeds of up to 600 knots, but we can then add technology to increase the situational awareness of the pilot" 

The Striker II also has higher definition display than the earlier model, and head-tracking sensor technology.

This means that operational information can be accurately displayed to the pilot within his or her field of vision.

The sensors also remove any latency when the pilot moves their head, seamlessly overlaying the view in front of them.

Justin Bronk, research analyst in military sciences at the Royal United Services Institute (Rusi) agreed that the helmet's night vision capabilities were a "very significant advance".

He added that more accurate target tracking also removed some of the limitations of previous fighter helmets.

In addition, Mr Bronk cites the higher-definition display as a "crucial" advance. 

Previously pilots were faced with a screen resolution that was inferior to what they call "mark one eyeball" - the human eye.

More from the Farnborough AirshowA marine biologist has described the "horrific" sight of 55 small sharks washed up on a Gower beach.

Judith Oakley believes the fish came to rest on Pwll Du beach because of bottom trawling.

The fishing method involves using a large net with heavy weights to drag the seafloor and everything that comes with it.

Ms Oakley said there were three different species on the beach which were spotted on Saturday.

"It was horrific," she said. "There are always grim reminders of why I am so passionate about marine wildlife and protecting it. 

"I wandered around the beach in total disbelief. There were dead small sharks - smoothhounds and catsharks - strewn across the strandline, sand and amongst the rocks.

"I counted 55 and have never seen such a terrible image on a Gower shore, and such a tragic death for these incredible animals. 

"The animals were all in very good condition and it was pretty obvious that this was a case of discards from bottom trawler bycatch. Even worse is that some of these species can live for up to 25 years."

Ms Oakley added that smoothhounds are important predators in coastal waters because they keep the ecosystem balance in check by targeting shrimp, crabs and small fish. Scammers are using the MH17 disaster in east Ukraine to spread objectionable links, online security experts have warned.

A link to a pornographic website disguised as a video of the Malaysia Airlines crash was posted on a Facebook page dedicated to one victim.

Many tweets have been posted that appeared to report the disaster, but actually included spam links.

One expert said the firms should take more responsibility for removing them.

The chief intelligence officer of anti-spam body Spamhaus, Richard Cox, said that it was common for spammers to exploit anything being discussed by a lot of people online.

"It is a fairly rapid and predictable response by the individuals behind it. They are all to make money. There is no compassion involved," he said.

Mr Cox added that the perpetrators might be using software that could detect what was being posted regularly and repost using the same hashtags.

A Facebook community page dedicated to Liam Sweeney, one of the 298 people victims, uses his name and picture. 

Its sole post is a link entitled: "Video Camera Caught the moment plane MH17 Crash over Ukraine".

However, the link takes users to a pornographic website. Moreover, anyone who clicks on it is then asked to call a phone number in order to verify that they are aged 18 or older.

"Whoever it is now has your caller ID and you could get a lot of nuisance calls," said Mr Cox.

It is a fairly rapid and predictable response by the individuals behind it. They are all to make money. There is no compassion involved.”

"This is all based on a somewhat tasteless video that probably doesn't exist and is presented in a completely tasteless way."

He added that Facebook should have deleted the site.

Facebook subsequently did so after it was brought to its attention by the BBC. A spokesman said: "We are disabling these profiles as soon as we are made aware of them.

"We encourage people to block those responsible and report suspicious behaviour to our team of experts via our reporting buttons so that we can quickly take the appropriate action." 

On Friday 18 July, security firm TrendMicro reported that it had detected tweets pretending to be about MH17, but which also bore spam links.

Rik Ferguson, the firm's vice president of security research, said that its research suggested that the pages were most likely being used to gather clicks to generate advertising revenue.

He said the tactic could also be used to force pages higher up search engine rankings.

"It looks like a lot of people are retweeting what they are doing," he said.

Twitter's rules state: "User abuse and technical abuse are not tolerated on Twitter.com, and may result in permanent suspension. 

"Any accounts engaging in the activities specified below may be subject to permanent suspension: If you post multiple unrelated updates to a topic using #, trending or popular topic, or promoted trend."

TrendMicro said that many previous disasters had been exploited in a similar way and that it expected to see further exploitation of the MH17 crash.Gamers are competing for a share of a $10.9m (£6.3m) prize pot, in the world's most lucrative gaming contest.

The International pits the best players of a game called Dota2, created by developer Valve, against each other. 

Chinese teams NewBee and Vici Gaming are set to fight it out for the title.

The winning team of five players gets $5m, the runners-up $1.4m, with $4.5m distributed among the other 19 teams taking part in the tournament, which began on 18 July in Seattle.

Valve donated $1.6m of the prize money, but the rest was raised by some of the millions of people who regularly play the game.

Dota2 is as a multiplayer online battle arena game for the PC.

Each player assumes the role of one of 107 different heroes and must work together to defend their own and destroy their rival's "ancient" - an artefact sitting in a fortress sited in one corner of the game map. 

Video streams of the matches have been shared online, and Valve even ran a "newcomer" series to educate people new to the game. 

In addition, some bars, pubs and gaming centres around the world are holding parties for people keen to seen the finals in a crowd. 

The final is also set to be shown on one of the ESPN channels.

"Valve have put an awful lot of thought into packing digital sports up as actual things for people to actually follow and watch and enjoy," wrote Alice O'Connor in a blogpost on the Rock, Paper Shotgun website. 

Michael O'Dell, manager of the UK's Team Dignitas, said: "This year has certainly been the banner year for eSports, with massive tournaments in Dota, League of Legends and CS:GO (Counter-Strike: Global Offensive). And there are more to come. The scene is very vibrant right now."The BBC says the technical problems that hit the iPlayer and many other online services have been resolved.

The iPlayer service was out of action over most of the weekend thanks to problems with the database behind the catch-up service.

The faults also meant only a simplified version of the BBC's homepage was shown, while online video and audio clips were also disrupted.

A BBC spokesman said it was "pretty confident" the faults were now cleared. 

He added that the corporation would write and publish a blog about the root cause of the problems once its investigation into the faults was concluded. 

The duration of the outage led reporters to question BBC boss Tony Hall about the problems on a day when the corporation unveiled its annual report.

Mr Hall said that he would look into the cause of the problems and added: "99.9% of the time the iPlayer works very well".

While the iPlayer was not working tThe corporation put out statements via Twitter apologising several times for the inconvenience.

The apology did not mollify many people who strongly criticised the BBC about the length of the disruption.

Please turn on JavaScript. Media requires JavaScript to play.

BBC director general Tony Hall: "99.9% of the time the iPlayer works very well"

The problems for the iPlayer and many other sites started on the morning of 19 July when engineers noticed that there was a "severe load" on the servers underlying the video-on-demand system.

In addition, reports reached the BBC that viewers were getting slow response times for some services or were seeing errors saying a programme or clip was not available. 

Soon after the BBC noticed, messages were also received from network engineers at internet service providers (ISPs) including Virgin Media, which were also logging problems with the iPlayer and other BBC video traffic. 

Later in the day, the service became unavailable via the web and through smartphone apps.

Internal logs of the incident and how it was handled showed that database administrators, network engineers and system analysts were all called on to see if they could diagnose the problem and fix it.

Work continued throughout the weekend to try to stabilise the servers and database supporting the iPlayer and many other BBC services. 

The final fixes for the problems were expected to be applied on 21 July when the vast majority of people should be able reach the web-based video services as normal.

The BBC said it would issue a statement when it knew more about the cause of the glitches. EE has apologised after it "bombarded" customers with texts over the weekend.

One user complained of receiving more than 90 marketing messages from Orange, one of EE's brands, in a four-day period.

The text messages were reminders that the customers were eligible to add to their plans numbers that they can call for free.

EE said it was the result of a technical error that it was still working to fix.

Customers complained on social media and on the firm's own website.

"What is going on here? Both my wife and myself have been bombarded with texts about adding a new magic number for several days now and I'm getting mighty sick of it," wrote one customer on EE's website on Saturday. 

"Orange have now texted me 40 times in three days telling me I can add a magic number. Yeh, that's not annoying at all," wrote Laura Brannan on Twitter.

And another Twitter user Siobhan Ring wrote: "If I get one more text from @orange saying I can add a new magic number I may scream!! Receiving around 50 a day!"

The messages read: "Hi from Orange. Congratulations: you can now add another Magic Number." It included a link customers could follow to do so.

In response to the complaints on the website, a member of EE's community team named as Miles wrote on Sunday that the firm was "having an issue" with the text message service.

He wrote: "This reminder should only be sent once, but some customers are getting multiple reminders.

"If you've received any of these duplicate messages, please accept our apologies for any inconvenience. Remember: you're not charged to receive magic number reminders."

He added that he expected to be able to give customers an update on Monday, but none has been issued so far. 

An EE spokesman confirmed the details of Miles' post, but could not give any information on the number of people affected.
21 July 2014
