		12:32


    England's Katarina Johnson-Thompson will miss the 2014 Commonwealth Games in Glasgow because of a foot injury.


    The 21-year-old was told to withdraw on medical advice after being diagnosed with a "stress reaction".


    She said: "The Commonwealths was a key target for me this year. I was feeling so good in my preparation up until this week so this is a real blow."


    Johnson-Thompson posted the highest heptathlon score of the year with a 
    
personal-best 6,682 points 

     last month.


    Her performance at the prestigious Hypo-Meeting in Gotzis made her one of the favourites to win gold in Glasgow.


    The Liverpudlian said: "All the advice is telling me that I risk long-term damage if I compete in a heptathlon in just over a week's time, and I have to take that advice for the sake of my career."


    Johnson-Thompson had been competing in the long jump, one of the seven heptathlon disciplines, in the run-up to the Commonwealth Games, which open on Wednesday.


    She 
    
won silver at the World Indoor Championships 

     in March and set a personal best of 6.92m 
    
at the Glasgow Diamond League 

     meeting earlier this month.


    "I really hope to be able to compete in the long jump at the European Championships next month, but it doesn't take away how gutted I am that I won't be at the Commonwealths," Johnson-Thompson said.


    With Olympic champion 
    
Jessica Ennis-Hill absent after giving birth 

     and Morgan Lake, 17, focusing on the World Junior Championships, Grace Clements and Jessica Taylor will 
    
represent England.Â 


Usain Bolt - Jamaica's six-time Olympic champion and 100m world record holder will run the 4x100m

Yohan Blake - Jamaican 100m and 200m Olympic silver medallist will not compete

Bradley Wiggins - Four-time Olympic gold medallist will cycle on the track for England

Mark Cavendish- The Isle of Man cyclist damaged his shoulder in the Tour de France

Mo Farah - Double Olympic champion will race the 5,000m and 10,000m for England

Jessica Ennis-Hill- England's Olympic heptathlon champion has just given birth

Sally Pearson- Australia's Olympic champion will defend her Commonwealth title in the 100m hurdles

Becky James - Welsh sprint and keirin cycling world champion has a knee injury

David Rudisha - Kenyan world record holder and Olympic champion goes in the 800m

Saina Nehwal - India's Commonwealth badminton champion is out injuredMedia playback is unsupported on your device

