
An official photograph of Prince George has been released to mark his first birthday on Tuesday. 

The picture shows him on a family outing with his parents at the Natural History Museum in London. 

Andy Moore reports. Thousands of athletes and officials are descending on Glasgow as the city prepares for the opening ceremony of the Commonwealth Games on Wednesday.

Special travel arrangements are now in effect, with Games Lanes affecting the Clydeside Expressway, the M8 across the Kingston Bridge and the M74 motorway.

Police said drivers caught in the specified lanes would be fined £50.

More than 4,500 athletes will compete in 17 sports from Thursday before the closing ceremony on 3 August. 

Many of the venues are now in lockdown with parking and driving restrictions in force. 

Michael Renshaw, director of transport and logistics at Glasgow 2014, advised people in the city to plan ahead before any journey.

"Many of the spectators know the city well but it's important to remember venues and much of the transport network will operate differently from what people are familiar with," he said.

"All venues have very different travel options and there is no general parking available.  

"Spectators can help make their journeys as easy and stress free as possible by planning ahead and visiting the Glasgow 2014 website to view and use all the available travel resources to prepare and plan for a great day out."

Athletes and officials are being taken straight to the Athletes' Village, at Dalmarnock, in the east end of the city.

On arrival, they are being greeted by performers from the National Youth Theatre of Great Britain.

The sporting preparations are running in tandem with the Queen's Baton Relay, which is touring the city ahead of Wednesday night's opening ceremony.

Among the baton bearers on Monday was singer Susan Boyle who carried it at the city's Yorkhill Hospital for Sick Children.

Meanwhile, Games organiser Glasgow 2014 said a suspected outbreak of norovirus at the Commonwealth Games athletes' village, which began last week, was now under control.

In other Commonwealth Games news, Unicef projects helping children in Bangladesh and Malawi have been awarded £750,000 as part of efforts to create an international legacy from the Games.  

The funding, from the Scottish government and Sport Relief, is aimed at helping prevent child labour in Bangladesh and to give youngsters in Malawi skills to help them find jobs.To mark Benedict Cumberbatch's birthday, more than 100 people have attempted to set a world record for the number of people dressed as Sherlock Holmes in one room.

Some 113 people dressed as the famous fictional detective gathered at University College London on Saturday. 

They will find out later in the week if they have the record; however, there is not a current one to beat.

The event raised money towards the restoration of Sir Conan Doyle's home.

The author's Surrey home has fallen into disrepair, and about £2.6m is needed.

Roger Johnson, from the Sherlock Homes Society, said: "To come dressed as Sherlock Holmes in itself is pretty pointless. 

"To do it to raise awareness of National Literacy Trust and to help raise money to restore Conan Doyle's house in Surrey, that's the important thing. 

"But we do it, and we have fun doing it."

He said he did not expect the record to stand for long as another event was planned in August in Leeds to raise money for a brain research centre.

Cumberbatch became well known for playing the detective in a BBC One drama, which will be back for a fourth series next year.Media playback is unsupported on your device

